Benediction 

When by the changeless Power of a Supreme Decree 
The poet issues forth upon this sorry sphere, 
His mother, horrified, and full of blasphemy, 
Uplifts her voice to God, who takes compassion on her. 

" Ah, why did I not bear a serpent's nest entire, 
Instead of bringing forth this hideous Child of Doom ! 
Oh cursed be that transient night of vain desire 
When I conceived my expiation in my womb ! " 

" Yet since among all women thou hast chosen me 
To be the degradation of my jaded mate, 
And since I cannot like a love-leaf wantonly 
Consign this stunted monster to the glowing grate," 

" I'll cause thine overwhelming hatred to rebound 
Upon the cursed tool of thy most wicked spite. 
Forsooth, the branches of this wretched tree I'll wound 
And rob its pestilential blossoms of their might ! " 

So thus, she giveth vent unto her foaming ire, 
And knowing not the changeless statutes of all times, 
Herself, amid the flames of hell, prepares the pyre ; 
The consecrated penance of maternal crimes. 



Yet 'fieath th' invisible shelter of an Angel's wing 
This sunlight-loving infant disinherited, 
Exhales from all he eats and drinks, and everything 
The ever sweet ambrosia and the nectar red. 

He trifles with the winds and with the clouds that glide, 
About the way unto the Cross, he loves to sing, 
The spirit on his pilgrimage ; that faithful guide, 
Oft weeps to see him joyful like a bird of Spring. 

All those that he would cherish shrink from him with fear, 
And some that waxen bold by his tranquility, 
Endeavour hard some grievance from his heart to tear, 
And make on him the trial of their ferocity. 

Within the bread and wine outspread for his repast 
To mingle dust and dirty spittle they essay, 
And everything he touches, forth they slyly cast, 
Or scourge themselves, if e'er their feet betrod his way. 

His wife goes round proclaiming in the crowded quads 
" Since he can find my body beauteous to behold, 
Why not perform the office of those ancient gods 
And like unto them, redeck myself with shining gold ? " 

" I'll bathe myself with incense, spikenard and myrrh, 
With genuflexions, delicate viandes and wine, 
To see, in jest, if from a heart, that loves me dear, 
I cannot filch away the hommages divine." 

"And when of these impious jokes at length I tire, 
My frail but mighty hands, around his breast entwined, 
With nails, like harpies' nails, shall cunningly conspire 
The hidden path unto his feeble heart to find." 

" And like a youngling bird that trembles in its nest, 
I'll pluck his heart right out; within its own blood drowned, 
And finally to satiate my favourite beast, 
I'll throw it with intense disdain upon the ground ! " 

8 



Towards the Heavens where he sees the sacred grail 
The poet calmly stretches forth his pious arms, 
Whereon the lightenings from his lucid spirit veil 
The sight of the infuriated mob that swarms. 

" Oh blest be thou, Almighty who bestowest pain, 
Like some divine redress for our infirmities, 
And like the most refreshing and the purest rain, 
To sanctify the strong, for saintly ecstasies." 

" I know that for the poet thou wilt grant a chair, 
Among the Sainted Legion and the Blissful ones, 
That of the endless feast thou wilt accord his share 
To him, of Virtues, Dominations and of Thrones." 

" I know, that Sorrow is that nobleness alone, 
Which never may corrupted be by hell nor curse, 
I know, in order to enwreathe my mystic crown 
I must inspire the ages and the universe." 

" And yet the buried jewels of Palmyra old, 
.The undiscovered metals and the pearly sea 
Of gems, that unto me you show could never hold 
Beside this diadem of blinding brilliancy." 

" For it shall be engendered from the purest fire 
Of rays primeval, from the holy hearth amassed, 
Of which the eyes of Mortals, in their sheen entire, 
Are but the tarnished mirrors, sad and overcast ! " 



Echoes 

In Nature's temple, living columns rise, 
Which oftentimes give tongue to words subdued, 
And Man traverses this symbolic wood, 
Which looks at him with half familiar eyes 

Like lingering echoes, which afar confound 
Themselves in deep and sombre unity, 
As vast as Night, and like transplendency, 
The scents and colours to each other respond. 

And scents there are, like infant's flesh as chaste, 
As sweet as oboes, and as meadows fair, 
And others, proud, corrupted, rich and vast, 

Which have the expansion of infinity, 

Like amber, musk and frankincense and myrrh, 

That sing the soul's and senses' ecstasy. 



TO 



The Sick Muse 

Alas my poor Muse what aileth thee now ? 
Thine eyes are bedimmed with the visions of Night, 
And silent and cold I perceive on thy brow 
In their turns Despair and Madness alight. 

A succubus green, or a hobgoblin red, 
Has it poured o'er thee Horror and Love from its urn ? - 
Or the Nightmare with masterful bearing hath led 
Thee to drown in the depths of some magic Minturne? 

I wish, as the health-giving fragrance I cull, 

That thy breast with strong thoughts could for ever be full, 

And that rhymthmic'ly flowing thy Christian blood 

Could resemble the olden-time metrical-flood, 
Where each in his turn reigned the father of Rhymes 
Phoebus and Pan, lord of Harvest-times. 



ii 



The Venal Muse 

Oh Muse of my heart so fond of palaces old, 
Wilt have when New- Year speeds its wintry blast, 
Amid those tedious nights, with snow o'ercast, 
A log to warm thy feet, benumbed with cold ? 

Wilt thou thy marbled shoulders then revive 
With nightly rays that through thy shutters peep ? 
And void thy purse and void thy palace reap 
A golden hoard within some azure hive ? 

Thou must, to earn thy daily bread, each night, 
Suspend the censer like an acolyte, 
Te-Deums sing, with sanctimonious ease, 

Or as a famished mountebank, with jokes obscene 

Essay to lull the vulgar rabble's spleen ; 

Thy laughter soaked in tears which no one sees. 



12 



The Evil Monk 



The cloisters old, expounded on their walls 
With paintings, the Beatic Verity, 
The which ado'rning their religious halls, 
Enriched the frigidness of their Austerity. 

In days when Christian seeds bloomed o'er the land, 
Full many a noble monk unknown to-day, 
Upon the field of tombs would take his stand, 
Exalting Death in rude and simple way. 

My soul is a tomb where bad monk that I be 
I dwell and search its depths from all eternity, 
And nought bedecks the walls of the odious spot. 

Oh sluggard monk ! when shall I glean aright 

From the living spectacle of my bitter lot, 

To mold my handy work and mine eyes' Delight ? 



The Enemy 

" 

My childhood was nought but a ravaging storm, 
Enlivened at times by a brilliant sun ; 
The rain and the winds wrought such havoc and harm 
That of buds on my plot there remains hardly one. 

Behold now the Fall of ideas I have reached, 
And the shovel and rake one must therefore resume, 
In collecting the turf, inundated and breached, 
Where the waters dug trenches as deep as a tomb. 

And yet these new blossoms, for which I craved, 

Will they find in this earth like a shore that is laved 

The mystical fuel which vigour imparts ? 

Oh misery ! Time devours our lives, 

And the enemy black, which consumeth our hearts 

On the blood of our bodies, increases and thrives ! 



Man and the Sea 



Free man ! the sea is to thee ever dear ! 
The sea is thy mirror, thou regardest thy soul 
In its mighteous waves that unendingly roll, 
And thy spirit is yet not a chasm less drear. 

Thou delight'st to plunge deep in thine image down ; 
Thou tak'st it with eyes and with arms in embrace, 
And at times thine own inward voice would'st efface 
With the sound of its savage ungovernable moan. 

You are both of you, sombre, secretive and deep : 
Oh mortal, thy depths are foraye unexplored, 
Oh sea no one knoweth thy dazzling hoard, 
You both are so jealous your secrets to keep ! 

And endless ages have wandered by, 
Yet still without pity or mercy you fight, 
So mighty in plunder and death your delight : 
Oh wrestlers ! so constant in enmity ! 



Beauty 

I arn lovely, O mortals, like a dream of stone, 
And my bosom, where each one gets bruised in turn, 
To inspire the love of a poet is prone, 
Like matter eternally silent and stern. 

As an unfathomed sphinx, enthroned by the Nile, 
My heart a swan's whiteness with granite combines, 
And I hate every movement, displacing the lines, 
And never I weep and never I smile. 

The poets in front of mine attitudes fine 

(Which the proudest of monuments seem to implant), 

To studies profound all their moments assign, 

For I have all these docile swains to enchant 
Two mirrors, which Beauty in all things ignite : 
Mine eyes, my large eyes, of eternal Light ! 



The Ideal 

It could ne'er be those beauties of ivory vignettes ; 
The varied display of a worthless age, 
Nor puppet-like figures with castoncts, 
That ever an heart like mine could engage. 

I leave to Gavarni, that poet of chlorosis, 
His hospital-beauties in troups that whirl, 
For I cannot discover amid his pale roses 
A flower to resemble my scarlet ideal. 

Since, what for this fathomless heart I require 

Is Lady Macbeth you ! in crime so dire ; 

An ^Eschylus dream transposed from the South 

Or thee, oh great " Night " of Michael-Angelo born, 
Who so calmly thy limbs in strange posture hath drawn, 
Whose allurements are framed for a Titan's mouth. 



The Giantess 

I should have loved erewhile when Heaven conceived 
Each day, some child abnormal and obscene, 
Beside a maiden giantess to have lived, 
Like a luxurious cat at the feet of a queen ; 

To see her body flowering with her soul, 
And grow, unchained, in awe-inspiring art, 
Within the mists across her eyes that stole 
To divine the fires entombed within her heart. 

And oft to scramble o'er her mighty limbs, 

And climb the slopes of her enormous knees, 

Or in summer when the scorching sunlight streams 

Across the country, to recline at ease, 
And slumber in the shadow of her breast 
Like an hamlet 'neath the mountain-crest. 



20 



Hymn to Beauty 

O Beauty ! dost thou generate from Heaven or from Hell ? 

Within thy glance, so diabolic and divine, 

Confusedly both wickedness and goodness dwell, 

And hence one might compare thee unto sparkling wine. 

Thy look containeth both the dawn and sunset stars, 
Thy perfumes, as upon a sultry night exhale, 
Thy kiss a philter, and thy mouth a Grecian vase, 
That renders heroes cowardly and infants hale. 

Yea, art thou from the planets, or the fiery womb ? 
The demon follows in thy train, with magic fraught, 
Thou scatter'st seeds haphazardly of joy and doom, 
Thou govern'st everything, but answer'st unto nought. 

O Loveliness ! thou spurnest corpses with delight, 
Among thy jewels, Horror hath such charms for thee, 
And Murder 'mid thy mostly cherished trinklets bright, 
Upon thy massive bosom dances amorously. 

The blinded, fluttering moth towards the candle flies, 
Then frizzles, falls, and falters" Blessings unto thee " 
The panting swain that o'er his beauteous mistress sighs, 
Seems like the Sick, that stroke their gravestones lovingly. 

What matter, if thou comest from the Heavens or Hell, 
O Beauty, frightful ghoul, ingenuous and obscure ! 
So long thine eyes, thy smile, to me the way can tell 
Towards that Infinite I love, but never saw. 

From God or Satan ? Angel, Mermaid, Proserpine ? 
What matter if thou makest blithe, voluptuous sprite 
With rhythms, perfumes, visions O mine only queen ! 
The universe less hideous and the hours less trite. 
